Title: A Deep Ecology Worldview
Author: rwev
Category: philosophy/environment

Humans represent the pinnacle of consciousness in the known universe; we possess the most refined ability to reason and analyze, to feel and to be felt, to be emotional and sentimental. Perhaps most importantly, the power we have over our surroundings is unprecedented by any species before us.

Although humans, according to Murdy, are indeed “the crest of the evolutionary wave”, it is mandatory to acknowledge the spectrum of consciousness that exists, some of which is markedly similar to our own. Other species are indeed psychologically capable enough to reflect on the concept of a self, emotions, recognize health versus struggle, to feel happy or sad, possess unique intellectual identity, and have a sense of the past.

Consciousness, when compiled from the universe of living things, each contributing according to its own, should be considered the creature of ultimate value. This creature represents the apex of moral considerability, and we should prioritize the life and prosperity of this universal consciousness above any individual form of consciousness (i.e. a given species). Thus, we should try and maximize the life of this being.

Because the complexity of consciousness directly determines the intrinsic value of an organism, our actions should align with, as we contemplate our actions, this gradation of value.  As the level of sentience decreases, the rights of and obligations towards the respective creatures thus decreases. Nevertheless, we respect the sentience possessed by organisms other than ourselves, and must seek to preserve it, albeit with less urgency than our own. As a result, humans demand the highest level of respect and possess the strongest rights, while things possessing very little consciousness (such as a shellfish or insect) demand substantially less.

We, as humans and the literally dominating organisms of the world, should _maximize the flourishing of positive consciousness_ in the world; that is, we should seek to bring about, to the fullest extent possible, the _enjoyment _of conscience beings, animal and human alike.

Indeed, we realize that a strict, self-worshiping interpretation of this leads to catastrophe: humans, as a species, are thus maximized, because we possess (arguably) significantly more of the lifeblood of consciousness. Unfortunately, this way of thinking that has previously been implemented. In the past, this has brought about the greatest environmental problems of the human age, and certainly the largest troubles in the history of the earth ever generated by a single species.

But, I suggest, this is not a result directly of the consciousness-maximizing way of thought, but rather by the shortsightedness of past human generations and the self-centeredness. In the past, the priority of the dominating human sentience has been overemphasized. Additionally, previous generations have lacked in recognizing the responsibility that is required in possessing the power over the Earth that we do.

