Title: About   

Hi, I'm Ryan William (*rwev*).

In my private life, among friends and family, or in the solitude of nature, the richest and most fulfilling moment stem from reflecting on large concepts - not just abstractly, but connecting them into the intricacies of work, recreation, future vision, day-to-day priorities, and physical adventures.

First and foremost, that putting words onto the electronic paper of our time may crystallize my internal thoughts and instincts and reduce them to a readable, digestible form. One learns by explaining, and this comes with the positive by-product of the spread of knowledge and perspective.

Instead of my head staying as a chaotic mess of thoughts, a crossing of wires, never resting, I coming into the digital outlet, ironically enough, to seek _relief_. Relief from the pressure generated by multiple of fast moving thoughts in a tight space. A blow off valve, a place where I can come clean and organize my thoughts in a way that is conducive to thorough understanding and conclusion.
In conversations like these, the logical juices start flowing. The assembly of reasoning behind an answer. Thoughts in the midst of a conversation are fleeting, yes, but important nonetheless. I wish to capture for the books, these fleeting thoughts, creating something to show for the brainpower exerted into deep conversation. I also wish to reflect on the penetrating questions asked of me, and that force me to dig deeper into _why._
Writing is a learning process in itself. Explaining a procedure, a conclusion, or the supporting logic in text makes us consider it the content of it more than communicating in the spoken word. In writing, all of the content can all be laid out at a single point in time and higher standard of grammatical correctness, sentence order and flow are applied to text.

A mix of public / shared notes, projects, learning experiments, and deep dives into big questions. 

## Guidelines
There are some standards on plan to follow with the content of this site. 

### Current and Prospective
There is obviously a lot one has already experienced by the time he gets to the point to start writing about it and sharing it on the inter-webs. Although there is lots I would like to add regarding past experiences, I will not do so on this site. All post will be current experiences,  or in the case of notes and reference materials, things that provide ongoing tangible value in my life. The past is the past, and this site didn't exist in the past; therefore retrospective content won't exist on this site. 

### Informal, Uncensored, Grammatically Questionable, and sans Citations
This site will be a thought repository - _not_ a scientific journal, formal debate stage, or politically correct publication. I plan to move fast, and add content insofar as it satisfies my desire to put the thoughts onto paper. This does not involve grammatical knit-picking or appeals to authority via citations. Think colloquial. 

### Personal
Content will be the culmination of personal thoughts, both deep and shallow, and everything in between, and all brought together into a consistent weave. It may seem scattered and distracted, but at the end of the day, it's for my own sanity and quest to freedom from cognitive dissonance. This is not work, this is joy. As soon as I'm no longer intrigued by an idea or topic, I'll move on. I want this project to last, and thus it must be sustainable, and forcing myself to do something I'm not motivated by in my spare time is _not_ sustainable. Expect half-baked work. 

